A kind of surface constructed by sweeping potentially varying open cross sections along a curve horizontally (or near horizontally). The surface is generated by sweeping the CrossSections between CrossSectionPositions; linear interpolation is assumed, unless transitions curves between cross section points are indicated by OpenCrossProfileDef.Tags.The CrossSections are oriented with the Y axis of each profile facing upwards in +Z direction or vertically perpendicular to the Directrix, depending on theAttribute FixedAxisVerticalvalue.

In case of branching longitudinal breaklines, _IfcSectionedSurface_ may use _IfcOpenCrossProfileDef_ instances with varying number of cross section points. In that case, the point intwo consecutive cross sections that are connected are identified bythe same tag value.

**Formal propositions:**

1. The curve entity which is the underlying directrix shall have the dimensionality of 3.
2. The profile type shall be CURVEwithin the list of the profiles defining the cross sections.
3. The entity type for each section must be the same.
4. The list of cross sections and the list of cross section positions shall be of the same size.

**Informal Propositions:**

1. No two consecutive sections shall intersect.
2. If the directrix is not tangent continuous, the resulting surface is created by a miter at half angle between the two segments.
3. Very sharp edges may result in nearly impossible miter; implementer agreements may define acceptable limits for tangent discontinuity or require the directrix to be tangent continuous.
4. The directrix shall not intersect.
